In the previous lesson you've learned about many to
many relationship and then implement that in building
favorite question feature.
Now in this lesson we're going to learn another
relationship and then implement that to build
vote question or answer future.
Let's see the business logic behind the vote
feature or how the vote system should work.
So a question can be voted by more
than one user or by many users
in other word. An answer can also be voted by more
than one user. A user can vote for more than one question.
As a note he or she can only vote a unique question.
A user can also vote more than one answer.
Again as a not he or she can only vote a unique answer.
So here a single user can vote across questions
and answers. Vote can be vote up if a user like
the question or answer or down vote
if a user dislike the question or answer. In database
perspective we can represent the vote up with
a positive one and we can represent the vote down with negative 1.
All right so now that you know how the vote system should work.
Do you have any idea which relationship
type should we implement?
In my opinion there are two possible options. We can
use many to many relationship
And the second we can use many to
many polymorphic relationship.
So the first option we can implement
many to Many relationship as we did before
In this case we'll need two intermediate tables to store
relationship records for both users and questions
and users and answers.
The second option we can implement another relationship
called many to many polymorphic relationship.
In this case we only need one intermediate table to
store both relationship records and we'll need to have
an extra column to record the class name of the owning model
So from these two options I'm going to show you the
second option because if I choose the first one
Then I repeat the same thing because I have explained
that in the previous lesson and I'm sure you can
do it by yourself.
That's why I choose the second option so
that you'll find something different
and I hope you'll learn a lot.
All right
firstly let's open up our terminal and then create a new
branch to isolate our work by saying: git check
out
-b lesson-22
OK
now we are in lesson-22 branch.
Now let's generate new migration to create new table.
Here we can say: php artisan make migration
And here I'm going to call my table as votables.
So here I'll say create votables
table
Okay let's open the create_votables_table file
here in
up method let's remove the increments id
because it's not necessary in this case.
And then here we need to define a column
to store id of the user.
So table unsigned integer
user id
and then we'll need to define another column
to store id of the question or id of the answer.
So we are going to say table unsigned integer and the
column name should be votable id this because we call
our table
as votables
That's why the column name should be prefixed with
the singular form of the table name.
Let's also have votable type in string that will
store the class name of the owning model
again
here the column name start with the single form of the table name. Next we'll need to have a column to store
the vote value so table
tiny integer vote
The reason why I use tiny integer is because this column will only be contain two possible numbers positive
one to represent vote up and negative
one to represent vote down.
Actually let me add a comment here. We'll keep
this time stamps so that we can keep track when the
user vote the question or answer and to prevent a
user to have more than one vote for a single question or answer
let's define unique
It contains user_id votable_id and votable_type.
Let's save all changes
and head over to our terminal and then run our
latest migration by saying: php artisan migrate
OK
Here the create votables table has been successfully migrated.
Next
let's open up the user model
here since we'll need to define two relationship
methods for questions and answers
so here I'm going to call the first one
as vote questions
and inside this method because user
morphed by question and answer model
so we're gonna say return this morphed by many.
In the first argument we specify the name of the related
model
and in the second argument we need to specify
the singular form of the pivot table name.
That's why here we specify `votable` with that eloquent
will recognize that the pivot table name is `votables`
and there will be votable_id and votable_type columns.
Let's duplicate this lines
and change the name to vote answers
and inside here we change the name of
the related model to answer. Next
let's open up the question model
and here we can define the inverse relationship method
and I'm going to call it `votes`.
Here we can say return this morph
to many. In the first argument we
specify the name of the related model
in this case user model
in the second argument we specify the
singular form of the pivot table name.
All right let's copy this method and open answer model
and paste the method in.